# Cortex XDR - Wazuh Integration

## Table of Contents

* [Introduction](#introduction)
* [Compatibility](#compatibility)
* [Version](#version)
* [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
* [Installation and Configuration](#installation-and-configuration)
    * [Installing Cortex XDR](#installing-cortex-xdr)
    * [Initial Cortex XDR Configuration](#initial-cortex-xdr-configuration)
    * [Installing Wazuh (if applicable)](#installing-wazuh-if-applicable)
    * [Initial Wazuh Configuration (if applicable)](#initial-wazuh-configuration-if-applicable)
    * [Using the Integration Files](#using-the-integration-files)
* [Integration Steps](#integration-steps)
* [Integration Testing](#integration-testing)
* [Sources](#sources)

---

### Introduction

This integration provides support for ingesting and decoding logs from Cortex XDR and Cortex XDR Agent into Wazuh. It includes an essential ruleset, decoders, and an optional dashboard to visualize events. This integration was developed in a real use case.

---

## Compatibility

Tested and validated with:

- Wazuh v4.12
- Cortex XDR logs (various event types from agents and the platform)


## Version

Tested on: `Wazuh v4.12`

---

### Prerequisites

- An already "working on" environment of Wazuh.
- Cortex XDR or Cortex XDR Agent log source.
- Access to `/var/ossec/` for integration files.
- Access to Wazuh Dashboard for content visualization.

---

### Installation and Configuration

#### Installing Cortex XDR

It is assumed that Cortex XDR is already installed in your environment. If not, refer to the [official documentation](https://www.paloaltonetworks.com/cortex/cortex-xdr) for deployment and licensing.


#### Initial Cortex XDR Configuration

Ensure that logs are being exported via Syslog or API to Wazuh.
This may include:
- Enabling log forwarding
- Configuring filters
- Creating service accounts or API keys
- (https://docs-cortex.paloaltonetworks.com/r/Cortex-XDR/Cortex-XDR-4.x-Documentation/Deployment-steps) for successfully deploy and checklist the initial configuration.
- (https://docs-cortex.paloaltonetworks.com/r/Cortex-XDR/Cortex-XDR-4.x-Documentation/Integrate-a-syslog-receiver) for set up a syslog receiver.


#### Installing Wazuh (if applicable)

A standard Wazuh installation is assumed.  
Refer to the official guide: https://documentation.wazuh.com/current/installation-guide/index.html

#### Initial Wazuh Configuration (if applicable)

Make sure Wazuh Manager is receiving logs and that the `ossec.conf` references the new rules and decoders.

#### Using the Integration Files

Place the following files:

- **Decoders**:
  - File: `/content/ruleset/cortex-xdr/cortex-xdr-decoder.xml`
  - Path: `/var/ossec/etc/decoders/`

- **Rules**: 
  - File: `/content/ruleset/cortex-xdr/cortex-xdr-rules.xml`
  - Path: `/var/ossec/etc/rules/`

- **Sample logs**:
  - `/content/ruleset/cortex-xdr-logs/log00` → matches `<decoder name="cortex_xdr">`
  - `/content/ruleset/cortex-xdr-logs/log01` → matches `<decoder name="cortex_xdr_agent">`
  - `/content/ruleset/cortex-xdr-logs/log02` → also matches `<decoder name="cortex_xdr_agent">`

- **Screenshots**:
  - Located on: `/content/ruleset/cortex-xdr/cortex-xdr-screenshots/`
  - Located on: `/content/wazuh_dashboard/cortex-xdr/cortex-xdr-essential-dashboard-screenshots`

- **Essential Custom Dashboard**:
  - Cortex XDR Essential Dashboard can be imported in Wazuh Dashboard.
  - Located on: `/content/wazuh_dashboard/cortex-xdr/cortex-xdr-essential-dashboard.ndjson`

Restart Wazuh Manager after configuration:
```bash
systemctl restart wazuh-manager
```

---

### Integration Steps

1. Copy the **Decoders** and **Rules** files in your environment.
2. Restart the wazuh-manager.
3. Use the Ruleset Test or live events to rule evaluation. If testing with Ruleset Test:
  3.1 From the Wazuh Dashboard, navigate to --> hamburguer menu --> Server Management --> Ruleset Test.
  3.2 Copy one of the sample logs into the text box and press the blue Test button.
  3.3 Notice the output with the decoded fields and the alert that it triggers.
4. Import the Essential Custom Dashboard:
  4.1 Download the file `/content/wazuh_dashboard/cortex-xdr/cortex-xdr-essential-dashboard.ndjson`
  4.2 From the Wazuh Dashboard, navigate to --> hamburguer menu --> Dashboards Management.
  4.3 On the left area, click on --> Saved objects.
  4.4 At the upper right corner press on Import.
  4.5 Select the downloaded from your local system `/content/wazuh_dashboard/cortex-xdr/cortex-xdr-essential-dashboard.ndjson`
5. The Visualizations from the Essential Custom Dashboard content:
  5.1 `Table of Contents | Markdown.`

Provides a simple navigation menu for the Cortex XDR Essentials dashboard. It allows to quickly locate key visualizations and sections.

  5.2 `Total Cortex Logs | Metric`

Shows the total number of Cortex XDR logs. Useful as a quick indicator of activity volume.

  5.3 `Logs by Host | Vertical Bar`

Displays the number of Cortex XDR events generated by each host. Useful to identify which endpoints are producing the most activity.

  5.4 `Events by Message | Pie`

Displays the distribution of Cortex XDR events based on their message content.

  5.5 `Trend Over Time | Line`

Shows the number of Cortex XDR events over time, helping to identify trends or unusual activity patterns.

---

### Integration Testing

To verify:

1. Use the Ruleset Test or live events to rule evaluation. If testing with Ruleset Test:
  1.1 From the Wazuh Dashboard, navigate to --> hamburguer menu --> Server Management --> Ruleset Test.
  1.2 Copy one of the sample logs into the text box and press the blue Test button.
  1.3 Notice the output with the decoded fields and the alert that it triggers.

2. Or inject real logs and verify output in:

  - `/var/ossec/logs/archives/archives.log`
  - `/var/ossec/logs/ossec.log`

- Confirm expected alerts are triggered.
- Use Wazuh Dashboard with the *Cortex XDR Essential Dashboard* for visualization.

---

### Sources

- https://www.paloaltonetworks.com/cortex/cortex-xdr
- https://documentation.wazuh.com/current/user-manual/ruleset/testing.html
- https://documentation.wazuh.com/current/user-manual/ruleset/rules/custom.html
- https://documentation.wazuh.com/current/user-manual/wazuh-dashboard/creating-custom-dashboards.html
- https://documentation.wazuh.com/current/user-manual/ruleset/decoders/custom.html
